ZANARKAND STADIUM
After the FMV, you'll be controlling Tidus. Just go south and talk to the
2 girls or the 3 children. You can rename him if you want. Afterwards the
game will begin and Tidus will leave. When you regain control, just keep
going east. On the next screen head north into the building. You'll watch
the blitzball game, then Sin will attack Zanarkand. When you regain control,
head south towards the screen and you'll meet up with Auron. After their
short talk about Sin, you'll have to fight some sinscales. These are easy,
just attack. After that there will be a boss.

BOSS: SINSPAWN AMMES
HP:    2400
AP:    0
Gil:   0
Items: none
Equip: none
Steal: N/A
This one is very easy. First, you'll be taught about how to use overdrives.
Auron's Dragon Fang will get rid of all the sinscales. As for the Ammes,
just attack it and unleash your Overdrive when available. It can't kill
you even at 1 HP so don't worry.
There will be a save sphere here, so save your game if you want. You'll
fight those sinscales again. Just keep attacking them until Auron tells
you to destroy the machine on the right. After a few scenes you'll see
an FMV of Tidus being absorbed into Sin with Auron.

RUINS
Treasures: Hi-Potion x2, Ether, Potion x2, 200 Gil
Key Items: Withered Bouquet, Flint
Head to the circular platform with a boy on it. Hold X to dive. You'll be in
the ruins. Head west for a chest with 2 Potions. Go back into the water then
head east for a chest with 200 Gil. Head back into the water again, this
time go north. There's a save sphere here, take the west path to the end for
a chest with a Hi-Potion. Go back, then head north. You'll fight a group
of Sahagins. Kill two of them and a big fish will come.

BOSS: GEOSGAENO
HP:    ?
AP:    0
Gil:   0
Items: none
Equip: none
Steal: N/A
This is another easy one. Just attack it, for about three to four times and
heal when you need to.

After some scenes, go north and up the stairs. You'll be at the main hall
and you'll need fire. Now, head north into the room, then inside head a
little bit south for a chest with an Ether. Still in the same room, head
north and up the stairs to get the Withered Bouquet, keep going until the
end of the path for a chest with a Hi-Potion. Head back to the main hall,
then into the room southwest. There will be a save sphere here, you can save
your game here if you want before going in. In the room, take the Flint.
Head back out to the main hall and examine the wood at the center.
There will be some more scenes, then Tidus will be attacked.

BOSS: KLIKK
HP:    1500+
AP:    5
Gil:   100
Items: Ability Sphere x2
Equip: none
Steal: Grenades x3
This is another easy one. Have Rikku use her grenades to deal about 300+
damage every turn. If you happen to run out of grenades, just steal. Have
Tidus attack it or use Potions if necessary. You'll win eventually.
You'll be taken to their ship afterwards.

SALVAGE SHIP
Treasures: Potion x3
Key Item: Al Bhed Primer Vol. 1
The people here will be speaking the Al Bhed language. Tidus will be asked to
work. When you regain control, save your game. Then head to the right side of
the upper deck to get the Al Bhed Primer Vol. 1. Then talk to one of the guys
and he'll give you 3 Potions. Talk to Rikku and you'll learn how to use
the sphere grid. Talk to Rikku again. You'll be swimming now, dive and
move towards the red indicator at the end. Keep going until after the next
screen.

UNDERWATER RUINS
There will be a save sphere behind you, save if you want. Examine the blue
panel up ahead. This will open a new path. Go in. You'll be fighting a
group of Piranhas here, I suggest that you steal some grenades from them,
you'll need it later. After the battle, examine the machine at the center.
Then head back out. You'll have to fight another boss.

BOSS: TROS
HP:    2,100+
AP:    5
Gil:   100
Items: none
Equip: none
Steal: Grenades x2
This is also quite easy. He'll be hiding behind the pillar, thus Tidus won't
be able attack him. So, have Tidus cast Cheer or on Standby using the
Trigger Command. As for the Rikku use her grenades, you'll be able to hit him
even from that distance. Tros will attack you and hide again. With Tidus,
open the Trigger Command menu again then choose Pincer Attack. They will now
attack Tros from both sides, and this time he can't escape so just pummel him
until he dies.

After the battle follow Rikku towards the exit. You'll be back on the ship.
There will be another scene with Tidus talking to Rikku about Zanarkand
and other things. Sin will come and attack the ship. You'll be asked if you
wish to save your game afterwards.

BESAID
Treasures: Potion x5, Hi-Potion x2, Pheonix Down x5, Antidote x4, 600 Gil,
           Ether, Seeker's Ring, Remedy
Key Items: Moon Crest, Al Bhed Primer Vol. 2
You'll have to watch some scenes again. When you regain control, head
ashore then go west for a chest with 2 Antidotes. Go back into the water,
this time head east for a chest with a Moon Crest. Head to where the
Besaid Aurochs are. then you'll see more scenes. When you regain control,
talk to the Blitball players several times and you'll receive some items.
Just follow Wakka to the valley, and he'll push Tidus off the cliff and
into the water. In the water you should notice a chest, dive to get a
Pheonix Down. Head towards the red indicator at the end, dive along the
way for a chest with a Hi-Potion. There will be another chest farther
ahead with 2 Antidotes.
After a short talk between Wakka and Tidus, you'll be at Besaid Village.
Here, you'll have to look around. Proceed to the shop(the first house
to your left) there will be a chest with a Pheonix Down. Head for the
Crusader's Lodge. Get the Al Bhed Primer Vol. 2 by the entrance.
With that done, head for the temple up ahead.
You'll see another scene here, about Braska. After that, head back out
and find Wakka. After the scene, go all the way back to the temple.
Some more scenes will take place and you'll end up in the Cloister
of Trials.






